# Linked-In-Bots

## Overview:
Our project is to inform users of LinkedIn about the likelihood that a profile they are viewing could be generated by a bot, which Enhances transparency, Decreases the prevalence of false profiles
and Makes LinkedIn a more trustworthy platform for genuine users.

## Problem
* Overestimate the prevalence of bots 
* Exposure tends to impair judgment of bot-recognition self-efficacy 
* Increase propensity toward stricter bot-regulation policies 
* Decreased self-efficacy and increased perceptions of bot influence

## Research Question
What are characteristics or patterns we can use to detect LLM profile generated bots on Linkedin?

## Data Description
This dataset comprises a total of 3600 LinkedIn profiles, categorized into three main groups:

* Legitimate LinkedIn Profiles (LLPs): 1800 profiles
* Fake LinkedIn Profiles (FLPs): 600 profiles
* ChatGPT-generated LinkedIn Profiles (CLPs): 1200 profiles

# Model Labels

* Label 0: Legitimate LinkedIn Profiles (LLPs)
* Label 1: Fake LinkedIn Profiles (FLPs)
* Label 10: ChatGPT-generated LinkedIn Profiles (CLPs) created based on legitimate profiles' statistics
* Label 11: ChatGPT-generated LinkedIn Profiles (CLPs) created based on fake profiles' statistics

Manually created additional datasets
*Real LinkedIn profiles: manually scrapped 40 real/Fake profiles on LinkedIn 
*Fake LinkedIn profiles: CLP+ Fake profiles generated using Faker Library


## Goals
We aim to inform users of LinkedIn about the likelihood that a profile they are viewing could be generated by a bot, which
Enhances transparency, Decreases the prevalence of false profiles, make LinkedIn a more trustworthy platform for genuine users

## Solution

We want to create a visual comparison between fake and real profiles on LinkedIn to show awareness for students.
We also want to share our models for students to test and determine if the profile is legit on LinkedIn.

## Usage Guidelines

* This dataset is used for research purposes only
* Please read LinkedIn's terms of service and privacy policy when using these datasets

## Instructions

### Build and Install

Download and Install Visual Studio Code (VSCode):

Visit the official Visual Studio Code download page.
Choose the appropriate version for your operating system:

*Windows: Download the Windows installer.
*macOS: Download the macOS version.
*Linux: Depending on your distribution, you can download either the .deb package for Debian/Ubuntu-based systems or the .rpm package for Red Hat/Fedora/SUSE-based systems.
Follow the installation instructions provided on the download page.

Setting Up Python Environment in VSCode:
Once you have VSCode installed, open it.
*Install the Python extension for VSCode. You can do this by going to the Extensions view (click on the square icon on the sidebar or press Ctrl+Shift+X) and searching for “Python”. Install the one provided by Microsoft.
*Create a new Python project or open an existing one.
*Open a Python file (.py) in your project.

If you haven’t already installed Python on your system, you’ll need to do so. You can download Python from the official Python website.

*To install Python packages (such as pandas, scikit-learn, seaborn, and matplotlib), open the integrated terminal in VSCode (press Ctrl+Backtick or go to View > Terminal), and use the following commands:
pip install pandas scikit-learn seaborn matplotlib

### Citation
@inproceedings{ayoobi2023looming,
  title={The Looming Threat of Fake and LLM-generated LinkedIn Profiles: Challenges and Opportunities for Detection and Prevention},
  author={Ayoobi, Navid and Shahriar, Sadat and Mukherjee, Arjun},
  booktitle={Proceedings of the 34th ACM Conference on Hypertext and Social Media},
  pages={1--10},
  year={2023}
}
